---
title: About
---
# About

I am a Master of Arts in Psychological Science student, researching quantitative methods at The University of British Columbia—Okanagan (UBCO). As a quantitative researcher, my focus is on the statistical techniques researchers use to draw conclusions from datasets. The integrity of any research program is dependent on the strength of its methods for inferring answers to research questions. My goal as a researcher is to improve the state of research in psychology and other disciplines by (a) implementing best practices for research methods and data analysis; (b) developing novel statistical techniques and data analytic methods; (c) investigating and improving upon the currently employed techniques; and (d) providing plain language instruction about best practices in research methods and data analysis such that the best available techniques are accessible to researchers with limited quantitative experience.

My current work focuses on methods for determining the number of latent variables to retain from a principal components analysis (PCA) or principal axis factoring (PAF) solution. PCA and PAF are widely employed in psychology and other disciplines in which researchers are interested in identifying the important dimensions underlying the variation in a dataset. It is essential to the validity of these techniques that the researcher not ignore important dimensions or retain trivial ones. Unfortunately, many of the commonly employed methods for determining the number of latent variables to retain display suboptimal accuracy under a variety of conditions. I am investigating the use of supervised learning as a means of integrating multiple previously developed retention methods into a single retention method that can be applied to datasets with a variety of characteristics.

Outside of quantitative research, I regularly collaborate on research projects in a variety disciplines. Recent projects which I have been or am currently involved in include topics such as the impact of digital device screen time on the well-being of families with young children, the impact of canine–assisted therapy on law enforcement personnel well-being, and predictors of cannabis use in adolescents.
I have experience working in R, Python, SQL, and Microsoft Excel.
